How much main memory aka RAM do you need for comfortable development?

I couldn't work with 16 GB of RAM anymore. Just starting all #Clojure and #ClojureScript development tools like #IntelliJ and the #OrgPad environment, #Chrome, #Firefox, #Discord and some other apps just would eat all that up during the day. With 32 GB of RAM, it is much better now and I have still got some left.

So today, we extended Pavel Klavik's RAM to 32 GB and Kamila Klavíková's to 24 GB respectively. It should've taken 10 minutes but took 2 hours. You cannot buy RAM with the frequency/ timing as was present in the #Asus mainboards with #Intel Kaby Lake and Haswell respectively, so not really old. Faster RAM generally should be able to work with lower speed RAM by lowering its own frequency but that is just the theory. We had to update #BIOS to get better RAM support and set the suitable frequency by hand. The mainboard isn't able to show you some possible resolutions and their effects (like lower performance, but all the capacity or the best performance with less capacity).

There wasn't really much guidance on what to do in such a case on the Asus website dedicated to the support of the mainboard but we have some experience ;-) We've got it working intuitively using the EZ Flash 3 tooling that can read from a NTFS partition straight from the UEFI interface. It is a little scary - code from 2016 to 2018 vintage reading from local storage like that. Did you know, UEFI also has a network stack?

So all of us have 24 GB or more RAM in at least one computer we own. That is probably about half as much RAM as what whole #eBay used in 1999 to run. They probably used the highest #Sun E10k configuration with 16 cpu boards and 64 GB of RAM back then in 1999 when they had their famous outage and I just went into the first class in the elementary school... https://www.wired.com/1999/06/ebay-blames-sun-for-outages/ One difference is, our computers don't exactly eat on the order of 15 kW of power (something like 6 electric kettles boiling water) to run. Just some thoughts about how far technology has come.


Published: 2021-11-23T02:07:03.002 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_ebay-blames-sun-for-outages-activity-6868716478275837952-0sxo

