Two groups of programmers stand out and both are gravely mistaken.

The first thinks, that there are "fast" programming languages, such as C or Rust and every piece of software that is written in those "fast" languages by definition must be fast. 🤔
Absolute speed of execution of a simple benchmark doesn't tell you anything about how a real world system will perform. Almost no real software system gets implemented twice for comparison using equivalent approaches. For serious systems, it would be a total waste of time, since if you worry about the speed, there is something you can do no matter the language. Now, there are languages that offer the programmer more control or offer more guardrails. Also, software usually doesn't exist in a vacuum it has to obey the laws of physics especially the speed of light. In the time of a single clock of a modern processor (let's say 0.2 ns) you can exchange information i.e. do a round trip over about 2 cm distance. If you hit the network or any mechanical device, you are at least in the department of milliseconds. Light in glas fiber can travel about 200 km in 1 ms.

If you are smarter in your software and avoid this communication by saving round trips, you will achieve much better real world performance quickly. If your language is so focused on control and details, it can make it more difficult for you to see these possible savings.

The second group thinks that just by using a language the software product will posses one or more of these features: be of poor quality, slow, have no pool of people to hire, have no ecosystem, be hard to maintain and more. 🤔

Evaluating a language based on the hiring pool is just dumb. I have news for you, every language had a hiring pool of 0 at some point at that time it was created to solve a set of problems better. There also was no ecosystem. Also, knowing a language doesn't mean you can solve problems or solve them appropriately. You can write bad (slow, bug ridden, hard to maintain...) software in any programming language just as you can say dumb things in any human language.

Perhaps the language the second group dislikes is more consistent and therefore easier to learn and write solid software in when programming real systems. Perhaps it uses a different approach and can reuse the ecosystem of a different language. Perhaps the language is not efficient for math or AI on its own but there is a good library that does math really well and the combination is very efficient when solving a particular problem. Perhaps it just has parentheses before function name and not after or doesn't use semicolons to separate statements.

Choosing a language for a system is an important and difficult task. Remember there are languages suited better or worse for a particular project and team. Deciding is never about a single property and biases will probably discard some valid options preventing you from arriving at the most reasonable solution.

Published: 2022-09-09T18:31:32.264 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_two-groups-of-programmers-stand-out-and-both-activity-6974041614247682049-dfww

