The cloud is just other people's computers. Yes, all digital services eventually run on hardware somewhere. Software without an execution environment is useless. It's like a recipe using ingredients that are not available.


Most of the computers that run the websites and applications like Microsoft 365 or GMail are never seen by their users and that includes even most of the developers of those services. It's all abstracted away. The developers don't have to experience the noise, the cool or hot corridors of cabinets filled with computers and other gear top to bottom.


But hardware matters. If it has problems, everything running on top of it usually has problems too. These problems can be decreased performance in certain cases, various glitches, no service at all or probably worst of all - silent data corruption. For the biggest companies these problems are a daily occurrence because they have so many special computers they call servers that even small probabilities of failures add up. Developers have to take these problems into account in the services they program.


There are approaches how to reduce the impact of failures. You can double or triple every critical part like what IBM does with their mainframes. The back of one such multi-frame (4 cabinets/ racks) is shown on the picture bellow. Yes, there are water pumps at the bottom because parts of the machine are water cooled.


The alternative is to only have a single backup of some of the most critical components and let the software handle the rest of the failures. Usually, the reliability is achieved not by having a single very reliable, yet pricey computer but by having more decently reliable computers at commodity prices.

If you buy many computers you want some better management and integration so you just buy by the cabinet/ rack and get 32 computers, 2 switches and the whole power conversion at once - like the Oxide rack.


Some companies like banks might use both approaches. Each one for where it makes sense. Most banks have the core of the transactions processing still on mainframes. But the whole web application and a good portion of the backoffice systems runs on more commodity servers in the cloud or in the bank's data center.


#kaliszutelefonu #mainframe #rack #server #infrastructure


Published: 2024-08-12T15:30:05.474 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_kaliszutelefonu-mainframe-rack-activity-7228754621257699329-vn-0

[IBM z16 configurator doors open, back](./media/IBM-z16-multiframe-back.png)[Oxide Computer rack from the front](./media/oxide-hero-rack.webp)