**Milly the Mailiphant and the Oracle Wrecking Ball - that was the Prague PostgreSQL Meetup this Monday.**


Adam Wołk explained progressively more intricate approaches to searching email archives using #PostgreSQL built-in full text search features but also later he connected PostgreSQL to #Azure/ #OpenAI #LLM and took into account semantic implications of the query. That could surface related emails that however don't contain the specific string in any form. This could also be used e.g. when searching for hotels that allow pets if there is no such option to select on the search page. Later he also explained optimizations e.g. with Gin indexes and more.


Mayuresh B. explained the troubles you can experience after a migration from Oracle to PostgreSQL. Most gotchas were about optimizations #Oracle does or can be hinted into doing that must understood and potentially be solved differently in PostgreSQL if they become a problem.

This spurred an interesting discussion with Tomas Vondra among others especially about hinting and internal statistics in PostgreSQL.


Thank you Gülçin Yıldırım Jelínek for organizing this enjoyable and informative evening and everybody else for joining.


#kaliszutelefonu #meetup #talk #presentation #knowledge #sharing


Published: 2024-10-02T15:09:50.792 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_postgresql-azure-openai-activity-7247231307657728001-Z88l

[Mayuresh B. explaining the troubles you can experience after a migration from Oracle to PostgreSQL](./media/oracle-wrecking-ball.jpg)[Adam Wołk giving a presentation about PostgreSQL search and how it can be connected to LLMs for better semantic search.](./media/milly-the-mailiphant.jpg)
