Run your servers hotter for better efficiency.

Adjusting the server fan duty cycle based on readings from sensors can improve the cooling efficiency and acoustics by a lot. If you can run your CPU slightly hotter, it is possible to achieve overall lower power and better performance per watt. Here we see an Asus RS520A-E11 server with AMD EPYC 7443P Milan (200W TDP), 16x NVMe Kioxia CD6-R 7.68 TB (up to 19W/ drive!) and 16x 64GB RAM (60-70W total) running ~ 370W serving three database VMs and a number crunching VM. The CPU eats 120 W of power and runs at 66°C, while the inlet temperature is 30°C. The four 80 mm fans run at slightly above 7000 rpm. An identical server running less demanding workloads consumes 20 W less power and runs the fans at 6000 rpm with the CPU at 63°C.

Fan power consumption is approximately a cubic function of the rotational speed of the rotor given in revolutions per minute (RPM) which means it is almost always more efficient to buy a larger fan and run it at lower speed because (as seen in the table) a 40 mm fan typically found in a 1U chassis pushes 23 cubic feet/ minute (CFM) of air consuming roughly 5.4 W at 13000 rpm. In a 2U chassis, you can instead use 80 mm fans running e.g. at 10500 rpm pushing 100 CFM consuming 14.4 W, which is 63% more efficient. A typical 1U server might have 8-10 fans, a 2U server often just has 4 as is the case with Asus RS520A-E11.

The default setting on this server would run the fans at above 10 000 rpm wasting a lot of energy. With a small adjustment, we can run the fans at lower speed for longer scaling the fan speed at steeper scale as we reach higher temperatures. Also, these CPUs can run well into the 90s °C with no issue so we don't have to ramp to 100% fan speed until ~90°C. This setting, with these workloads and room temperature will keep the CPU at about 60-65°C most of the time with decent air flow for the NVMe drives in the front as well. This has the nice side effect of the servers no longer annoying the office workers next doors to the server room.


Published: 2024-02-26T23:08:29.624 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_run-your-servers-hotter-for-better-efficiency-activity-7168003920097746945-0BfK

[](./media/Asus_Server_E520_settings_crop.png)[](./media/fan-speed-supermicro.png)