🤯**The first goal of the UNIX philosophy is unattainable and actively hinders progress**❗


1️⃣ Nobody knows what “**well**” is and how the perception of “well” develops over time. It's subjective.

2️⃣ Many people do **not start at all** if they don't feel they can build something well. Especially people which might benefit a lot from **starting and doing something** like Lu Wilson suggests.

3️⃣ It turns out that most if not all programs that are “unixey” do at least two things: a) they have complicated ways to parse the input and format the output, b) the thing that is their actual reason of existence. In general they are not functions but rather whole modules. Even simple programs like wc(1) can count characters, bytes, words, and lines. Only one of those is hinted at by the name of the program.

4️⃣ The tools in a standard #GNU or #BSD distributions are by far not perfect and not done. If they were nobody would have the need to work on them, right? However putting these on the high pedestal is a nightmare for people with impostor syndrome, which would be quite capable of contributing fixes and improvements.

5️⃣ The philosophy as a whole is targeted towards an early endeavor a startup or the beginning of a project. But it has a muddy approach to #compatibility. The additive nature of “build afresh rather than complicate old programs” shouldn't generally harm compatibility. The second point would almost hint at some forward compatibility and the third point would suggest no backwards compatibility. So which is it?


Perhaps it's time to rework the #Unix philosophy into something that builds on the 55 years of additional understanding. What do you think?


#kaliszutelefonu #philosophy #coreutils #thinking #programming #linux #scripting #engineering #system


Published: 2024-12-01T11:24:02.087 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_gnu-bsd-compatibility-activity-7268932851700580352-EemM

[The Unix philosophy as formulated by Doug McIlroy](./media/unix-philosophy.png)
