**ll our keyboards and the text encoding  have major flaws that haunt us every day**.


💡 Because computers don't have any notion of text characters we need to agree on which numeric code represents what character when humans want to read some digitally processed text.


❗ Because of limited resources in the past we tried to get by with as little codes as possible. This led to an oversimplification which influenced other unfortunate decisions which we need to work around in a costly way.


1️⃣ These #ASCII codes also represent commands that influence how a mechanical typewriter would work. These include a command to move a single space backwards or to the next line, return the writing head to the beginning of the line or sound a bell and commands related to electronic transmission of information some of which we don't use anymore much.


2️⃣ We are** missing the left and right single quote and double quote characters**. We just get a unified single and double quote, where it's only clear from context, if it opens or closes a quotation. All because we saved two code points and potentially a single key on our keyboards because of that.


👉 Because of this** penny wise**,** pound foolish mentality **and because of how we often represent text in some programming languages, we have countless bugs related to mixing up commands for our programs and just text.

Also, there are languages that represent a starting quotation with double quotes at the bottom of the line, not the top, which is another problem in communication beyond the US.


💪 We invented complicated escaping and quoting mechanisms for instance to be able to print a quote character in the middle of a string of characters. However even such measures are not always in use or somebody makes a mistake and then you get so called vulnerabilities in programs. These cybersecurity problems and reliability issues are called various names. A prominent group is called “** injection**” which rely precisely on the fact that we combine instructions and text in a complicated manner when we talk to databases using Structured Query Language.


🤔 Improving this would be a nightmarish amount of work and coordination. We literally don't have a key for the quotes, we cannot just change the ASCII encoding which other encodings and almost all programs out there rely on.


For now, we will have to endure it by using what we have, complicated quoting and escaping mechanisms, key-combinations, auto-correction or smart-quotes and validations for places where we omitted or messed all of this up.


In the light of all this we should probably be thankful we have separate codes for O and 0, and I and 1 and small letters instead of just all caps.


#kaliszutelefonu #encoding #text #communication #data #international


Published: 2024-11-18T13:50:51.886 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_ascii-kaliszutelefonu-encoding-activity-7264258760422912000-isQl

[ASCII Table in Clojure with codes 34 and 39 marked, which signify double and single quotes respectively.](./media/ascii-table-clojure.png)