Everything related to computers was basically invented 2️⃣5️⃣ years ago and hasn't changed much since then. Or has it?


The world in 1999 looked a lot different than today. For one, most people didn't have a mobile phone. The Nokia 3310, released in September 2000, looks quite ancient by today's standards! It had a monochrome display with 84x48 pixels and cannot even play an MP3. That's for devices. Windows XP was released only at the end of 2001, and people were using Internet Explorer 5 around the year 2000. Mozilla Firefox came out much later, at the end of 2004. But was any of this a fundamental change? Was the science and technology mostly done by then?


I would argue no. First of all, Free and Open Source Software was a total niche. Most companies used only licensed software. The internet 🌐 was taking off but wasn't nearly as widespread. Many people still paid for internet use by the minute, as if it were a telephone call. Encryption and computer security were just starting to matter for ordinary people. The export of such technologies was no longer under such strict supervision. Thanks to that, internet banking became practical. Similarly, for navigation, GPS dropped some artificial limitations and became useful for the general public 🚗. Even advanced technologies like JIT compilation just started to appear, with the HotSpot Performance Engine released in 1999. Without further research into JIT compilation and huge advances in computer performance and overall standardization, today's web applications wouldn't be possible.


Even computer science changed a lot. For instance, the data structures and the whole development of the language #Clojure I like happened in the last 25 years. Many new and very popular languages appeared or substantially improved during the same timeframe, such as Rust, Go, and TypeScript. Parallel and vector computation became much more widespread. The availability of affordable fast storage in the form of Solid State Drives brought with it a lot of research into storage tiering and caching. With rising computing power, sharing computers by virtualizing whole systems became widespread, leading to the era of cloud computing and eventually to offerings we call Software as a Service (SaaS) today.


The principles stayed, but the details changed in many places so much that it is no wonder maintaining IT systems is so hard if you want to support current expectations.


#kaliszutelefonu #internet #banking #foss #navigation


Published: 2024-08-08T16:11:52.445 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_clojure-kaliszutelefonu-internet-activity-7227315584793747456-myZ2

[Nokia 3310, source: wikipedia](./media/Nokia_3310_Blue_R7309170_wiki.png)