This might be one of the most discussed computer science papers in recent times. That doesn't make it true or useful though❗


For instance it is quite common to solve problems "in Python" by using a library that was carefully written to solve some problem efficiently. It may be written in C or Fortran, you don't care, you just use the interface it provides.


How JavaScript and TypeScript (which is based on JavaScript) are so far apart is beyond any reasonable person. Similarly for Java and C# which use similar approaches, coding styles etc.


In real life, mostly you don't optimize a program by rewriting it in a different language. I heard about people rewriting proof of concepts in Python to an implementation in Rust that then runs in production. That however is in the high frequency trading industry, which is a real niche. Most people would do some tracing and work on the most problematic parts.


The last time I did something serious with Python, I did a network traffic analysis. First I have written a simple concept with Scapy. It worked but was rather slow. I switched to DPKT, which is more low level. The program became an order of magnitude faster if I remember correctly. I was analyzing tens of Gigabytes of metadata using that approach.


Don't spread misleading information like this paper.


#pseudoscience #Python #performance #kaliszutelefonu


Published: 2024-08-02T17:06:04.274 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_pseudoscience-python-performance-activity-7225154896759566336-qOep

[Energy efficiency of programming languages](./media/energy-consumption-of-languages.png)