💡 #OpenZFS is a modern file system that can manage #storage in a clever way that helps doing #backups better, preventing the extent of #ransomware damage and a lot more while maintaining great performance.

The best part is version 2.3.0 with big improvements on top of the already great piece of open source software landed just a few days ago.


👉 The #expansion of parity #RAID setups (RAIDZ) with additional disks for the VDEV was a popular request especially in hobbyist and SMB setups. Previously, you were only able to expand a pool based on parity RAID setups by adding additional VDEVs. For a RAID-Z2 (similar to RAID6) pool with a single VDEV of 4 disks you would only be able to reasonably add an additional group of 4 drives constituting another VDEV. The resulting pool would have double the amount of drives and two VDEVs. But that would basically waste the space of 2 full drives compared to the setup with a single RAID-Z2 VDEV from 8 drives, which would use the space of 6 disks for data and 2 for parity. (Well it's more complicated than that with ZFS, but it's a decent approximation.)


👉 Another big improvement is in the realm of #deduplication, which should scale much better for many additional workloads where the cost was too high previously. You can read about it in great detail here: https://despairlabs.com/blog/posts/2024-10-27-openzfs-dedup-is-good-dont-use-it/


👉 Direct IO support and optimizations should bypass the ARC cache and improve performance for very fast devices such as #NVMe drives and some special use cases.


👉 Optional JSON output of some commands and file and directory names of up to 1023 bytes are now supported. This can be interesting if you write some tooling based on the output of #ZFS commands use many emojis or other characters that use more than a single byte per character.


#kaliszutelefonu #FOSS #Linux #FreeBSD


Published: 2025-01-15T21:36:47.046 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_openzfs-storage-backups-activity-7285394509067108354-wLIU

[OpenZFS 2.3.0 release notes](./media/openzfs-2-3-0.png)