☀️ It's about 14 years since high school and about the same time since I started my first job for a serious pay. I have just seen a “10 years of coding advice in 60s” so I thought I will share my current view on that for future reference and laughs.


① Learn to behave, communicate and negotiate with respect and empathy.


② Don't turn people away with your behavior. Be reasonably polite, fun, leave room for other people to shine and get credit where deserved. If needed, speak up for people.


③ Be trustworthy. Communicate needs, limits, fulfill what you promised, be on time taking into account the timeliness in the specific context e.g. of culture. Be reasonable and correct.


The first three because short term, people will pay for things and services they need. Long term, they will work with people they respect, like and trust.


④ Build meaningful relationships with interesting people. Take your time to understand people. A strong network of contacts will allow you to solve bigger problems than what a single person can handle. ①, ② and ③ help with that a lot. People generally also remember what they felt when they were around you, less so what you talked about with them.


⑤ Uncover those that seem to be interesting but which just suck energy out of you. These people will always make their contributions however small or big stand out and minimize the value of your contribution especially when they have a feeling they no longer need you. Try to not shut all doors for good.


⑥ Make sure you deliver value even under constraints. If you know something is not your strong suit decide and communicate if you want and can delegate it or will have to work smarter and harder to improve, learn to like this area. Some tasks are really just stupid for no good reason here is an opportunity to go back to ① and negotiate a better approach, compensation, help, more time etc.


⑦ Build expertise and a system for getting unstuck. Having people that are really good at what they do and are also supportive around will help you learn more in a shorter amount of time and leave you with plenty of energy and motivation to apply what you have learned in your own area.


⑧ Be patient with other people and yourself. If people are honestly trying don't be too strict with them, including yourself. Are you trying hard, don't see any obvious issues but things just don't seem to work out? Give it some more time. This does not mean you should never quit anything or not part ways with anybody but to give projects and people the time they need and you can afford.


⑨ Take good notes, repeat things, review, analyze, think about things you have said and done, are doing or plan to do. Build skills, a knowledge base and a tool box for yourself. Look at what other people do and say and how that works out. Ask people about their ways with a healthy amount of interest.


⑩ Build good habits and avoid especially the ones that hurt you or the people you love.


#kaliszutelefonu


Published: 2025-07-01T18:18:25.519 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_kaliszutelefonu-activity-7345848264505655297-mqYo

