Do #code comments live their own life?


📖 They can be almost like #wiki posts, provide a general overview of the domain or frame the context for the concrete problem solution. I was made aware of such a comment recently: https://github.com/janestreet/core/blob/master/core/src/time_float.mli#L236


⏱️ Handling date and time is notoriously difficult and it's easy to get lost. If you can solve the problem once and then it receives only minor changes for a long time, such comments can be the difference between a piece of code you can rely on or a burden.


🗨️ Comments can be helpful or harmful. Be it in code or when reviewing a document good comments save time and provide confidence. Bad comments are a liability and have a tendency to deteriorate teams through uncertainty, lost time and the resulting frustration.


🗂️ I like code examples directly with the code in the appropriate comment. I don't like versioning information with functions or other data that should be best kept in the Version Control System (VCS) such as #git.

Codebases can include diagrams, drawings, tables for more documentation and should be linked from the README with some sort of explanation. It's great if you can check out everything relevant with a few simple steps.


What do you think about comments?


#kaliszutelefonu #comment #revision #programming #editing


Published: 2025-02-03T16:49:40.079 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_corecoresrctimefloatmli-at-master-activity-7292207623376879617-pUyL

