If you want to implement a simple #ICMP ping in various languages, you:

• either have a built-in way,

• can talk to a different program that already does it,

• shell out to the ping command or program shipped with the operating system

• or you can implement it from low level components such as RAW sockets or ICMP_PROTO datagram sockets in the case of #Linux. Yes, these low level approaches tend to be platform specific.


#Java has a very simple implementation of ping and ping6 using tcp to port 7 and ICMP if the program has sufficient permissions using native code in C, specifically libnet/Inet4AddressImpl.c and libnet/Inet6AddressImpl.c.

These Java Native Interface (JNI) platform specific implementations are then called from Inet4AddressImpl.java and Inet6AddressImpl.java respectively.


🤨 Unfortunately, the isReachable implementation in Java does not really tell you what approach it used, how long it took and many other things most ping programs allow you to do. As I previously wrote I have also some other issues with how IP addresses are handled in Java in general but in this case I just didn't really need more control. If I did, I could use the RockSaw library to do my own RAW sockets in Java or I could switch to some other language and ecosystem.


👉 So I wrote a simple wrapper that allows me to get just enough information for my analysis using #babashka. Babashka is a #Clojure subset interpreter and includes some common libraries from the Java and Clojure ecosystem and compiles/ packages them down into a single binary with #GraalVM. This environment is really comfortable for little experiments and scripts.

Last but not least, if I don't want to launch babashka as root I just have to suitably adjust the ping_group_range sysctl in Linux.


Did you need to wrap or implement ping at some point?


#kaliszutelefonu #networking #analysis #latency


Published: 2025-02-01T14:13:09.659 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_icmp-linux-java-activity-7291443461369520128-were

[A wrapper around InetAddress isReachable to provide timing information and allow input to be InetAddress or a string.](./media/clojure-isreachable-ping.png)