Last Monday of the month and another Prague PostgreSQL Meetup this time about an alternative approach to ORMs and a bit about TLS née SSL.


This time, the meetup was hosted by Outreach so Petr Šmejkal told us how they migrated away from ORMs and embraced sqlc. The approach here is to generate Go code from SQL schema and queries that developers can call as normal functions. This approach is familiar to me, because HugSQL from the Clojure ecosystems seems to more or less implement a similar approach.


After a networking break with tasty food provided by Salty J'S we heard an update about the proper use of TLS in PostgreSQL. Peter Eisentraut of EDB told us about the history of SSL/ TLS in #PostgreSQL that was introduced in version 7.1 in April 2001 – almost a quarter century ago. We quickly progressed towards practical tips, such as verify-full that enforces certificate checks and the ssl-config web tool by Mozilla that helps with creating sane configurations even for PostgreSQL among many other projects.


Thank you Gülçin Yıldırım Jelínek for organizing.


Thank you Damir Bulic for the interesting chat about OracleDB to PostgreSQL migration tool that you are building. It's always great to meet new and familiar faces alike and hear about what people are up to. Thank you Tomas Vondra Jakub Jirutka Hans Ginzel Joni Pohjaniemi Klara L. Hudakova and so many others for taking the time.


#kaliszutelefonu


Published: 2025-05-28T14:31:47.626 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_postgresql-kaliszutelefonu-activity-7333470043378221057-JYJB

[Gülçin Yıldırım Jelínek introducing the May 2025 PostgreSQL meetup](./media/posgresql-meetup-may-2025-intro-1.jpg)[Gülçin Yıldırım Jelínek introducing the May 2025 PostgreSQL meetup](./media/posgresql-meetup-may-2025-intro-2.jpg)[Petr Šmejkal from Outreach](./media/postgresql-meetup-smejkal-1.jpg)[Petr Šmejkal about building SQL queries as string concatenations in earlier times in Perl](./media/postgresql-meetup-smejkal-2.jpg)[Peter Eisentraut from EDB about TLS/ SSL](./media/postgresql-meetup-eisentraut.jpg)