🤔 For the last few years I think about the “compete, compare, converge” development model. This works for pairs or small teams of 3-5 people at most and on tasks that should take about 1 day if you don't include corporate overhead. It is a special kind of hackathon basically.


👉 Yesterday, Vít Kalisz and I did some conversion of 11319 bills in XLS to a new template in XLTM to fit an existing workflow at a car dealer. Yes, this was AI/ LLMs assisted and partly thanks to this were done in a few hours including the conversion itself and finding a conflicting setting in Excel that would cause PDFs to be printed in Letter instead of A4 format.


❓ So how does this work?


• You compete in the beginning when you research the problem and work on a partial solution.

• You compare where you got on your own and what the open problems are.

• You pick the more suitable approach and take it over the finish line.


💡 We quickly found out #Babashka with bb-excel nor #Clojure + Docjure (Apache POI) will not get us over the finish line fast enough. The second might have gotten us to a solution eventually but Vít already had a solution using #Python + openpyxl. Yes, we could have used libpython-clj bridge from Clojure as well but this was a short enough task that it wouldn't pay off.


Do you have a similar experience?


#kaliszutelefonu
Published: 2025-04-02T13:25:27.389 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_babashka-clojure-python-activity-7313159628580679681-c__s

[Compete, compare, converge](./media/compete-compare-converge.png)