📉** s lojure market share growth slowing down and what to do about it**?


🥺 We could look at some data and hand pick stats that support any picture. But the consensus in the community seems to be #Clojure market share and perhaps community growth is slowing down or they may be even shrinking - at least based on the impressions from Heart of Clojure 2024 in Leuven, Belgium.


🤔 The problem seems to be that Clojure, ClojureScript and other dialects and implementation don't seem to be presented as a suitable** first language **with which non-programmers could first learn programming.


👉 It is still somewhat harder to setup a Clojure/ ClojureScript environment so you can really start developing. There are things that seem to be obvious to a seasoned programmer but are completely foreign to someone with no experience for whom English is not the first language.


🤔 Some frequently used functions in Clojure like map, reduce, assoc(iate) or concat(enate) have descriptive names which are only obvious to rather formally educated people. Is assoc better than .update or .append or similar? I don't know but these things are just not at all obvious for western, English speaking, university educated, extremely well-paid, senior developers with 20+ years of experience in the industry.


👉**  do think lojure and its dialects are wonderful languages and they form a strong**,** productive ecosystem that helps solving all kinds of practical problems**.


But currently teaching or learning Clojure(Script) just needs more effort than for instance JavaScript. The worry is, if there are not enough newcomers to the community, it might eventually die out. That would be a huge loss.


#kaliszutelefonu #programming #community #conference
Published: 2024-09-19T14:48:08.170 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_clojure-kaliszutelefonu-programming-activity-7242514801812279296-1p9K

[Stack Overflow Developer Survey 2022 Top Paying Technologies 37960 responseshttps://survey.stackoverflow.co/2022/#technology-top-paying-technologies](./media/2022-stack-overflow-survey.png)[Stack Overflow Developer Survey 2023 Top Paying Technologies 47883 responseshttps://survey.stackoverflow.co/2023/#technology-top-paying-technologies](./media/2023-stack-overflow-survey.png)