#Facebook and their services (#Instagram, Messenger, #WhatsApp, Oculus and perhaps others) have had almost 6 hours of outage yesterday. Here are some explanations for what happened:

ELI5: The addresses of the tour guides and map shops where removed by mistake, so visitors didn't know the way and therefore could not visit the sightseeings (Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram). The ensuing chaos took down other shops as people were asking around.

The more technical explanation: The internet is a network of networks. To get from one network to another, we have to exchange information about routes. For that, we use the Border Gateway Protocol. Routes work with numerical addresses. Because humans are quite bad with numerical things, we have names that resolve to addresses. For that we use the Domain Name System. Facebook and it's services have by mistake withdrawn the route to their authoritative DNS servers. So people basically couldn't get an answer for what the address of facebook.com and related stuff was. The devices kept asking overloading other parts of the infrastructure at local internet service providers and elsewhere, because Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram are so big.

Most detailed explanation at Cloudflare https://blog.cloudflare.com/october-2021-facebook-outage/

During that time, if you tried to log into OrgPad using the Facebook oauth2 login, it most likely didn't work. Sorry for the inconvenience.
Published: 2021-10-05T10:55:00.734 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_understanding-how-facebook-disappeared-from-activity-6851077239405084673-xuC1

