⁉️ Should servers listen on** any **network interface or just** localhost **by default?


💡 Server software, such as HTTP server that serve websites, can listen for incoming connections on any network interface and any port. The problem is it's not that clear** what **the** default configuration **should be if any at all.


0️⃣ All zero addresses in both IPv4 and IPv6 are special and usually signify that the IP address is undefined. If a server is provided this address to listen on it will usually listen on all interfaces.


⚡ This can be dangerous because if the firewall 🔥 is not configured properly the software perhaps in some kind of work in progress state could be exposed to anybody on the network or the internet without knowledge of the person that started the software.


1️⃣ For this reason some software starts on localhost by default, which limits the risk to the local computer in most cases. But it may confuse people who expect to be able to connect to the server remotely.


2️⃣ Another option is to not listen by default and** only start listening **after the software was** configured **to do so. This is quite safe but also the point about confusion applies.


😤 To complicate matters, we have two major internet protocols: #IPv4 and #IPv6.


🫣 Some software can listen on both at the same time, some will only listen on one by default and has to be convinced to listen on both by workarounds. Some software will only support IPv4 because during the last 15 years nobody bothered to add the needed support for IPv6.


📖 Last but not least the Domain Name System #DNS or the hosts file can contain multiple entries for any name. Some software will resolve the name to addresses, pick the first one and start listening on that address, some will listen on all. This can lead to some** surprisingly difficult to debug **failures as various algorithms for load balancing and so called Happy Eyeballs can complicate matters more picking some address most but not all of the time.


What is your take on this?


#kaliszutelefonu #network #software #server #system #engineering #nginx #apache #java #node #golang
Published: 2024-12-02T19:36:28.028 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_ipv4-ipv6-dns-activity-7269419164224610305--xa8

[localhost or any](./media/localhost-or-any.png)