⚖️ Compliance in the context of countries waging war. ⚔️


👉 It's rather straight forward. If you work for a company that directly provides components to the military that are used to wage non-provoked war against another country for the sole purpose to gain the other country's territory, 

** **and leave while you still can.


❗If you work on an architecture like Elbrus or Baikal processors it should be obvious why you were removed from the Linux maintainers list. Both Elbrus and Baikal are good keywords to search on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons list ("SDN List") https://sanctionssearch.ofac.treas.gov/ which is administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") of the US Department of the Treasury.


🤔 I cannot think of a good reason why anybody would use Baikal processors or an Elbrus architecture besides evading sanctions by countries that at least try to have a notion of free speech, other human rights and democracy still.


💡 Btw. the Soviet Union did not vote against the United Nations Resolution A/RES/217(III)[A] on 10 December 1948 accepting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights among all other members. Russia is a legal successor to Soviet Union so I guess the lies and trying to make everybody else in the world miserable just continue in a different coat.


❓ Do the mentioned maintainers support their government and are just waiting to enlist or what exactly are they doing? If they don't, why are they risking their lives by staying in a country that could enlist them and send them to the front lines any moment while also, in the meantime, supporting the wartime industry with skilled contributions?


#kaliszutelefonu #sanctions #linux #controversy #politics
Published: 2024-11-01T16:17:03.934 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_kaliszutelefonu-sanctions-linux-activity-7258134959343718402-Jtc0

[Greg Kroah-Hartman removing some Russian Linux maintainers https://lore.kernel.org/all/2024101835-tiptop-blip-09ed@gregkh/](./media/gregkh-remove-entries-2024.png)