🤔 The State of Cloud ➡ The State of the Union 2016 né 2024.


Bryan Cantrill gave a talk at Structure 2016 which is so reminiscent of the current situation like little else frankly. I want to add a few thoughts of my own.


🔥 I agree, we in the software industry and "high-tech" are still** fetishizing disruption and constant change**. This time it is perhaps less about the cloud or exploiting taxi drivers using an app but about Large Language Models and Artificial Intelligence.


✂️ And the** socioeconomic scissors **are opening up further and further. The society is falling apart into two groups in the United States and a similar thing is happening in Europe too. The** haves **and the** have nots **and of course a few opportunists fueling the tension. And of course this is not only about money, but also education, opportunities, health, customs and religion, housing, family, lifestyle or world view and more.


👉 If you feel like you are more on the receiving end of disruption and are dragged into change possibly against your convictions, if you feel like your options are diminishing you will wonder if something can be done about it from the top.


🚢 At the end of the day** we are all in the same boat**, we all have the responsibility to stay afloat and move towards at least relative prosperity for all. We will have to talk to, listen to and understand each other a lot more.


What do you think?


#kaliszutelefonu #disruption #economy #elections
Published: 2024-11-06T16:49:36.106 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_kaliszutelefonu-disruption-economy-activity-7259955086674563074-61pt

[Bryan Cantrill giving the talk Software as a Reflection of Valueshttps://corecursive.com/024-software-as-a-reflection-of-values-with-bryan-cantrill/Comments:Video from Structure 2016: https://vimeo.com/190937358](./media/bryan-cantrill-software-as-a-reflection-of-values.webp)