How would you ensure correct padding to the fixed string size of 4 characters when converting a number between 0 and 65535 to hexadecimal?


👉 One approach would be to calculate how long the string is after conversion to hexadecimal and prepend enough "0" characters before until the string is 4 characters long.


👉 You could also do a lookup based on the length of the string and just add the string of up to 3 zeros at once in this case.


👉 Or you could make sure the number you convert will always have 5 places out of which the last 4 interest you. This can be done by adding 65536 (or hexadecimal 0x10000) to the number we want to convert, which we can we do easily by the bitwise OR operation. This is extremely efficient. After the conversion we can just extract a string consisting of all characters without the first.


I show the old approach as used in the random-uuid implementation in #ClojureScript and the new solution I plan to benchmark and propose with some other improvements around the use of cryptographical pseudorandom number generation for inclusion.


#kaliszutelefonu #UUID #programming
Published: 2025-03-20T14:45:22.730 in Prague

Original article URL: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/adam-kalisz-nnm_clojurescript-kaliszutelefonu-uuid-activity-7308483798940176384-g1Dk

[Better padding in ClojureScript using bitwise OR extension of a random number ensuring predictable length and removing the first character after conversion to string.](./media/better-padding-in-clojurescript.png)